We've talked a good deal about what audits are,
how they originate, and their goals.
We've also briefly touched on a few reasons as to why managing audits is so important.
I'd like to drill down on that here.
As GRC professionals, you have a responsibility to facilitate and control audits,
because it helps reduce risk.
It does that by ensuring auditors have
a complete view of your security posture and your controls,
it helps to protect your compliance standing or
certification with certain compliance standards.
Something that's related to protecting certification,
it ensures that your audit results are consistent.
You never want audit findings to vary
wildly from year to year or from assessment to assessment,
it makes it difficult to understand where your true failures might actually be.
Controlling the assessment might also mean helping your company avoid scope creep,
or making sure that only what needs to be audited gets audited.
I'll talk about this in a little bit more detail in just a moment.
Finally, facilitation helps reduce unnecessary failure,
meaning that your assessment results reflect
only findings that are real weaknesses or control failures.
Let's take an even closer look,
why is it important that we do all of these things?Reduce failure,
avoid scope, creep, etc.
There's a delicate balance in audit.
On one side, you have a duty to answer assessor questions with integrity,
on the other side,
you have a duty to protect the interests of the business.
In most cases, your goal is either to gain
compliance or get through with these fewer findings as possible,
demonstrating that your organization has a strong security program.
So every step you take in controlling an assessment helps get you closer to that goal,
but you must provide complete and accurate information to the assessor.
We talk about this as providing your best honest answer,
best answer for the company, well,
honestly answering an assessors questions.
Now that we understand the conflict that GRC professionals deal with,
let's talk about how to facilitate an assessment versus controlling it.
Facilitating meaning that an assessor gets what they need while controlling it,
meaning that you create some guard rails.
Let's start with control.
The reason I start with control is because you have to understand
the scoping of assessment long before you begin the facilitate it.
Let me give you an example.
We talked about a customer assessment earlier,
what's the first thing you should do if a customer asks you to perform an assessment?
Without question, you need to understand if you're contractually obligated to allow it,
and if you are, what scope is allowed.
Now point of fact,
all of this work should have been done during
contract negotiations so that there aren't any surprises.
But you'll probably need to look the contract up anyway, just to be sure.
Anyhow, if a customer's contract allows
them to assess security for a specific product or service,
you can't allow them to assess outside of that scope.
Because otherwise, they'll be assessing items
that don't affect them and they may not be familiar with,
and that assessment will drag on,
speaking of which, you should always try to limit all of your assessments in time.
You don't want customers or other assessments to have
unlimited chances to reassess or demand additional information,
and here are some additional ways if you can control on it.
I'd like you to review these when you have some additional time.
If control is about placing guard rails,
facilitation is about helping an assessor as much as
possible while keeping the organization informed and at ease.
Your goal was to provide the best information possible,
and there's only a handful of things that you need to do that we'll: First,
create a project plan so that you understand the assessment schedule,
and you can line up technology and people resources ahead of time.
Ask for assessment questions and expectations early,
so you're not trying to chase down resources last minute.
Be engaged, staying engaged will help you guide
the assessment and reduce the chance for conflict.
Fully understand the scope to ensure the assessment doesn't veer off track,
and then finally, ensure that there's a successful transfer of information.
To make sure your control assessments go the right way,
it's a good idea for organizations to agree on
some pre-assessment rules of engagement and then create some checklists.
Those checklists can help reduce
institutional knowledge by giving every GRC employee a starting point,
if they become responsible for managing
an audit and they'll help reduce friction with IT and
security operations staff by making sure that you're
providing the best information available about upcoming assessments.